# Image-Search-engine
Content-Based Image Retrieval systems (CBIR).
It also known as query by image content (QBIC) and content-based visual information retrieval (CBVIR) is the application of computer vision techniques to the image retrieval problem, that is, the problem of searching for digital images in large databases. Content-based image retrieval is opposed to traditional concept-based approaches.
Image search engines that quantify the contents of an image are called Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) systems.In general, there tend to be three types of image search engines: search by meta-data, search by example, and a hybrid approach of the two.Searching by meta-data is only marginally different than your standard keyword-based search engines like Google, Bing, and DuckDuckGo.Search by example systems, on the other hand, rely solely on the contents of the image — no keywords are assumed to be provided. The image is analysed, quantified, and stored so that similar images are returned by the system during a search.Image search engine has the added poignancy that the search engine is relying strictly on the contents of the image and not any textual annotations associated with the image. “Content-based” means that the search analyses the contents of the image rather than the metadata such as keywords, tags, or descriptions associated with the image. The term "content" in this context might refer to colours, shapes, textures, or any other information that can be derived from the image itself. CBIR is desirable because searches that rely purely on metadata are dependent on annotation quality and completeness.
